.. See the NOTICE file distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

Multiscale Genomics
===================

Virtual Research Environment- Supporting the 3D/4D genomics community with
tools to integrate navigation from sequence to 3D/4D chromatin dynamics data.

Full details of the project can be found on the
`MuG website <http://www.multiscalegenomics.eu>`_.

From this site there are links to all of the documentation for each of the
repositories within the `MuG GitHub <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics>`_.
Each set of documents contains details about the installation and usage both for
an end user and for developers creating workflows.

If you want to develop tools and workflows that can run within the VRE please checkout
the `HOWTO <https://Multiscale-Genomes.readthedocs.io/en/latest/howto/index.html>`_
section of the site. This lists how to write a workflow, tool, the configuration files
and testing that the workflow works. Please also read about how to apply
the Apache2.0 license to your code and a document on Coding Standards that you should
adher to to ensure the best chance of your workflow being integrated with the VRE
as smoothly as possible.

VRE
---

`VRE <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/VRE>`_
   MuG Virtual Research Environment. MuG VRE is a web application aimed to allow
   MuG users to access MuG data and explore and exploit it together with its own
   data via a selection of tools and visualizers. It is written in PHP, HTML and
   Javascript.

   `GitHub VRE <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/VRE>`_



Development APIs
----------------

`mg-dm-api <http://mg-dm-api.readthedocs.io>`_
   Data Management API. This API tracks files within the VRE and contains
   meta data about how the file was generated with access to the file geneology.

   `GitHub mg-dm-api <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-dm-api>`_

`mg-tool-api <http://mg-tool-api.readthedocs.io>`_
   Tool API. This API provides the interface between the pyCOMPSs architecture
   and the tool. It provides a standard way for all tools to be wrapped to allow
   for a common interface layer.

   `GitHub mg-tool-api <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-tool-api>`_


Workflows
---------

`mg-process-fastq <http://mg-process-fastq.readthedocs.io>`_
   Workflows for processing FASTQ data. These workflows can handle ChIP-seq,
   MNase-Seq, RNA-Seq and Whole Genome BiSulphate Sequencing (WGBS). There are
   also scripts for generating the inditial set of indexes for given genome
   assemblies. There are also workflows for processing Hi-C data to generate
   adjacency matrices and calculate TAD regions

   `GitHub mg-process-fastq <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-process-fastq>`_

`mg-process-files <http://mg-process-files.readthedocs.io>`_
   Workflows for processing results files into an indexed form for use in a
   RESTful interface.

   `GitHub mg-process-files <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-process-files>`_


RESTful APIs
------------

`mg-rest-service <http://mg-rest-service.readthedocs.io>`_
   The root RESTful server. This provides links to the main root end points.
   Each end point is a provides a unique function within the defined URL so that
   the service as a whole appears seamless to the end user.

   `GitHub mg-rest-service <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-rest-service>`_

`mg-rest-dm <http://mg-rest-dm.readthedocs.io>`_
   RESTful interface to the DM API along with end-points to manage the stored
   files and track the relevant metadata.

   `GitHub mg-rest-dm <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-rest-dm>`_

`mg-rest-file <http://mg-rest-file.readthedocs.io>`_
   RESTful interface to the DM API along with end-points to servicing out
   regions from basic file based data, such as Bed, Wig and TSV files.

   `GitHub mg-rest-dm <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-rest-file>`_

`mg-rest-adjacency <http://mg-rest-adjacency.readthedocs.io>`_
   Interface for RESTfully querying adjacency matrices generated by the TADbit
   workflows developed in
   `mg-process-fastq <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-process-fastq>`_.

   `GitHub mg-rest-adjacency <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-rest-adjacency>`_

`mg-rest-3d <http://mg-rest-3d.readthedocs.io>`_
   Interface for RESTfully querying 3D models generated by the TADbit
   workflows developed in
   `mg-process-files <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-process-files>`_.

   `GitHub mg-rest-3d <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-rest-3d>`_

`mg-rest-util <http://mg-rest-util.readthedocs.io>`_
   Set of common functions that are required by the RESTful interfaces for
   interacting with the DM API.

   `GitHub mg-rest-dm <https://github.com/Multiscale-Genomics/mg-rest-util>`_

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

   howto/index
   coding_standards
   licensing
   license


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
